# billboard-predictor
Applying a logistic regression model and compare it with a classification tree to evaluate our model’s accuracy. Through the use of different models, we were also able to evaluate different trends in our dataset and identify the optimal values for  different audio features.


# Data Collection
Background

In 2020, the music industry generated $23.1 billion, and streaming made up 56% of the total
revenue. Because of the increasing profit generated by the music industry and growing streaming
services, artists and record labels have looked to maximize their chances of making their songs
popular. The research question we’re addressing here is: what are the most important factors that
make a hit song and given these features, what is the probability that a song will end up in the
Billboard Hot 100?

Data Collection and Cleaning
The data cleaning took the vast majority of the work. We realized data cleaning is essential to
identify and remove errors and duplicates. This improves the quality of the training data for
future analytics and helps increase our accuracy.
We started by looking at the dataset we found in TidyTuesday. The billboard dataset had records
of weekly Billboard Hot 100 going back to the 1950s. The songs features dataset included all the
songs on the billboard dataset that are also on Spotify. It also included a host of song features:
danceability, energy, key, loudness, mode, speechiness, acousticness, instrumentalness, liveness,
valence, tempo, time_signature, spotify_track_popularity, and spotify_track_explicit.
The Songs Feature dataset included a lot of NAs for many fields, which we confirmed were
because of the lack of information about the songs in Spotify. We omitted those entries and
moved on to create a songs features list of songs that didn't make it to the Billboard Hot 100 list.
We found an existing playlist on Spotify that had up to 5295 songs.
In Appendix 1, we talk further about utilizing Spotify API to extract song features for this data.
After binding the two datasets to make datasets of all the songs, we then moved on to create two
smaller datasets for training and testing purposes. This required us to split the dataset into two
randomly chosen training and test datasets.
